### **`data_simulated`**
This folder contains the snakemake pipeline (`Snakefile`) and data to run simulated analysis shown in figure 3 and S2.

* File **`Snakefile`**: The snakemake pipeline to run the analysis.


* File **`simulated_experiment.py`**: The script to run a single experiment, by providing a configuration file.

For example, inside the folder `data_simulated` to run the experiment with the configuration file `constant_pop_size.yaml` and 16 threads, run:
```
python3 simulated_experiment.py -c constant_pop_size.yaml -j 16
```
* File **`run.sh`**: Run all the experiments found in the `config` folder sequentially.
```
./run.sh
```

* Folder **`config`**: Folder containing the config files for the simulated analysis.
  - File **`config/constant_pop_size.yaml`**: Configuration file for the constant population size simulations (figure 3, top row).
  - File **`config/fluctuating.yaml`**: Configuration file for the fluctuating population size and mutation rate simulations (figure 3, bottom row).
  - File **`config/constant_pop_size_low_u.yaml`**: Configuration file for the constant population size simulations with low mutation rate (figure S2, left column).
  - File **`config/constant_pop_size_high_u.yaml`**: Configuration file for the constant population size simulations with high mutation rate (figure S2, middle column).
  - File **`config/constant_pop_size_very_high_u.yaml`**: Configuration file for the constant population size simulations with very high mutation rate (figure S2, right column).


* Folder **`experiments`**: Folder generated by the pipeline where the experiments are run. Each experiment is run in a separate folder with the same name as the configuration file.